CHAPTER 1
=========

Getting started
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use this guide to find out how to operate in «1C:SimpleERP», an
application which includes «1C:Enterprise 8» platform and «1C:SimpleERP»
solution.

«1C:SimpleERP» is a multifaceted solution covering main tasks of small
and middle company’s management and accounting. With «1C:SimpleERP», you
can organize a unified information system to manage various company
activities:

-  Sales and retail sales

-  Purchasing

-  Service

-  Manufacturing

-  Funds

-  Payroll and human resources

-  Finance including property

With this configuration, you can keep only management accounting.

Management accounting is kept by data recorded in documents.
Transactions are entered once and recorded in various management
accounting sections with balance sheet statement generation.

«1C:SimpleERP» solution provides the following benefits:

-  Top management and business development managers can analyze, plan
and manage company resources to improve the company competitiveness.

-  Department managers, managers, and employees engaged in production,
sales, supply and other production support activities can improve
work efficiency in their areas.

«1C:SimpleERP» solution implementation is particularly beneficial for
small and middle companies engaged in the following activities:

-  Contracted (project) works

-  Provision of services

-  Product manufacturing

-  Trade

These companies have the following features:

-  Employees from one to several dozen

-  Line organizational structure

-  Simple management processes

-  Multiple role holding by the same employee

-  Demand for automation – from one to fifteen work places

Features
~~~~~~~~

«1C:SimpleERP» is an integrated solution with simple functionality
suitable for small and middle companies.

The application can register and generate the following company source
documents: trading and purchasing, financial, warehouse, production. You
can use electronic versions of paper documents to register business
transactions in the application.

You can keep monitoring management accounting by all company
organizations or by a separate organization.

Analytical reports of the solution allow users to receive information on
all accounting sections.

You can adjust a detail level, grouping parameters, and filter criteria
of data in reports depending on a particular task. You can also generate
your own report variants and settings.

See information on each section of «1C:SimpleERP» below.

Sales
~~~~~

With «1C:SimpleERP», you can keep product range, prices, and discounts
of the company, plan sales and work with customers.

The following operations with the product range are automated in the
application:

-  Registration and storage of company products and services

-  Registration and storage of different products and services price
kinds; printing of price list

-  Registration of discount and markup kinds

-  Setting and changing of prices, price calculation according to the
basic price kind, prices of products and services, or a counterparty
price; rounding off

With the application, you can do the following:

-  Store a price calculation method (basic price kind and markup
percent), support dynamic and calculated prices

-  Store a format for products and services price kind used to display a
price in the price list

-  Store information about a user who changed products and services
price

You can generate sales plans in terms of quantity and value, by company
as a whole or by separate departments.

To analyze sales efficiency, you can generate variance analysis of sales
by separate departments, products and services groups, and goods.

You can prepare sales and work with customers using the following
operations:

-  Registration and storage of customer contact information

-  Registration and storage of counterparties' contact person list and
their contact information

-  Registration of events on interactions with customers, such as
incoming and outgoing calls, emails, meetings, and other

-  Registration of contracts with customers

-  Registration of customer orders (an order is actually a contract
specification in which product kinds, work kinds, delivery due dates
or fulfillment period, and cost are recorded)

-  Registration of job orders (a job order is a planning document for
work performance and service rendering. It also confirms work
performance, service rendering, goods sales, accounting of material
and labor costs)

-  Grouping customer orders into projects

-  Generation of a schedule of goods shipment, work performance, service
rendering

-  Satisfying demand for goods, works, and services under customer
orders by reserving unrestricted stock of goods in warehouses, and
placing in purchase orders and/or production orders

-  Tracking customer order supply with goods, products, works, and
services

The application supports the following sales schemes:

-  Sales from warehouse and under order

-  Shipment on credit or prepaid

-  Sale of goods accepted for commission

-  Goods transfer to agent for selling

You can document sales of goods, works, and services with packing slips,
acceptance certificates, and job orders. You can generate invoices based
on sale documents.

Retail sales
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Wholesale companies often have automated and non-automated retail
stores. Retail stores can be located remotely (in a market, a shopping
mall, etc.) or directly in the company building.

Quantitative and value accounting or value accounting can be kept in
sales outlets. For quantitative and value accounting you can use:

-  Accounting systems of the main office (when the store is located in
the company area or has remote online access)

-  A copybook where sellers regularly make sales entries manually

If the company does not have automation devices to keep quantitative and
value accounting of goods, or the company cannot carry out physical
inventory on a regular basis, value accounting is kept in the sales
outlet.

With the subsystem, activities of the following sales outlet kinds can
be automated:

-  Retail stores in a wholesale company building with a fiscal data
recorder (online cash register)

-  Sales outlets with an offline cash register ("copybook" accounting,
accounting with periodic physical inventory)

-  Sales outlets with value accounting

With the subsystem, you can generate the following reporting:

-  Against receipt/movement documents – packing slips in retail prices

-  Report on goods movements and stock in retail prices

-  Report on sales in retail prices

-  Printing of price tags and labels

Purchases
~~~~~~~~~

With «1C:SimpleERP», you can manage the company inventory.

Supply department timely receives information to identify and satisfy
internal and external demands for goods and services. In particular, it
receives the following information: actual non-satisfied demands for
inventories, works and services; actual purchases; open purchase and
production orders.

To satisfy demands, use goods reservation in unrestricted stock in
storage locations, or placement in purchase and production orders.

To provide goods and services purchase and work with suppliers, you can
use the following automated operations:

-  Registration of suppliers and contact information

-  Storage of supplier and competitor prices

-  Storage of a price kind, discount kind, counterparty price kind under
the contract

-  Storage of information on the user who changed counterparty products
and services price

-  Registration and storage of counterparties' contact person list and
their contact information

-  Registration of events when interacting with suppliers and
contractors such as incoming and outgoing calls, emails, meetings,
and other

-  Registration of purchase orders and control of their fulfillment

-  Generation of supply schedule

-  Inventory demand planning, inventory shortage determination,
generation of recommendations for inventory replenishment by
generating production or purchase orders

To record inventory receipt to the company, use the following schemes:

-  Receipt on counterparty payment

-  Purchase by advance holder

-  Acceptance for sales from an agent

-  Receipt of supplier's raw materials and materials for processing

Registration of additional expenses for inventory purchase is supported.

To keep inventory accounting in multiple warehouses, you can use the
following options:

-  Separate inventory accounting of the following items: own goods,
materials, products, goods received and transferred for commission,
and materials received and transferred for processing

-  Accounting of arbitrary products and services characteristics (color,
size, and other) and inventory batches

-  Accounting by storage location bins (areas, racks, shelves, and
other)

-  Inventory movement (between storage locations, putting into operation
and return from operation, write-off for internal needs)

-  Inventory reservation (inventory and expenses accounting by customer
orders)

-  Inventory accounting by CCD

-  Inventory accounting two-phase scheme (receipt and issue slips)

-  Printing of price tags and labels

The application supports physical inventory and recording of its results
(inventory capitalization and write-off).

Service
~~~~~~~

With «1C:SimpleERP», you can sell works that include material write-off
and labor compensation cost accounting. Service provision is registered
using job orders. Job order is a planning document of work performance
and service provision. It also confirms work performance, service
delivery, sales of goods, accounting of material expenses and labor
costs.

Job orders support company resource planning. You can access this option
using automated working station Scheduler.

Manufacturing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

With «1C:SimpleERP», you can manage product manufacture, work
performance, service provision.

Use bills of materials to manage data about executed works and
manufactured products.

Manufacturing scheduled plan is created against production orders; a
scheduled plan of work execution and service provision – against
production and job orders.

Company resource loading is planned against production and job orders.

Registered production orders have the following features:

-  You can use the orders as demand satisfaction sources against
customer orders.

-  You can calculate demand for materials and components against
production orders.

-  You can include demands against new customer orders in open
production orders.

With «1C:SimpleERP», you can register product manufacturing. You can
register release both in the manufacturing department and in the
warehouse (for example, packaging, set assembly). Products are assigned
to the business unit. You can move products to another business unit,
for example, to a warehouse for further sale or next shop according to
technological route.

Work execution (service provision) and its delivery to the customer are
recorded with the acceptance certificate and job orders.

To plan employee activities, use the following functions:

-  You can use job sheets to assign jobs for execution of manufacturing
technological operations to wage performers. These sheets can be
individual and team-based.

-  You can use job orders to plan employee loading within internal or
external projects.

Registration of actual data on work execution against job orders and
jobs is required. You can use this information to calculate salary,
evaluate work efficiency and carry out variance analysis of employee
work.

To keep records of company costs and calculate actual cost, use the
following functions:

-  Actual cost accounting is kept in required dimensions in value and
actual terms.

-  Allocation of tangible and intangible costs for release. You can
allocate both over the specified period and based on a specific
release document.

-  Regulatory calculation of actual release cost on period-end closing.

-  Report on cost of released products and completed works.

Funds
~~~~~

Use «1C:SimpleERP» to keep records of cash and generate real-time
payment calendar.

Funds management includes:

-  Cash flow accounting in cash fund and bank accounts

-  Creation of source bank and cash fund documents

-  Settlements with advance holders

-  Payment calendar generation

-  Integration with bank systems

Payroll
~~~~~~~

In this section, you can keep HR records, including employees holding
secondary employment, time-keeping of working hours (timesheet),
registering the results of automatic salary calculation of company
employees.

HR recordkeeping includes:

-  Hiring registration

-  Employee occupation change

-  Employee dismissal

Salary calculation includes:

-  Salary calculation by accrual and deduction kinds

-  Generation of pay sheets and advance pay sheets

-  Time-keeping of working hours. Use a time recording sheet to record
time by days or summarily over a period.

You can generate analytical reports on settlements with employees,
employees' accruals and deductions.

Company
~~~~~~~

Use this section to keep accounting of transactions related to a company
as a whole: edit chart of accounts of management accounting, keep
accounting of property. You can also use tools for tax accrual, entering
and allocation of other expenses, call of month-end closing procedure to
automatically generate financial result.

Property
~~~~~~~~

With the application, you can keep property accounting for fixed and
intangible assets of the company.

You can use the following options:

-  Keep property accounting and calculate depreciation

-  Enter property in the books, change its parameters

-  Sell and write off property

Analysis
~~~~~~~~

With «1C:SimpleERP», you can keep management accounting, receive balance
sheet statement, generate and analyze financial result.

To take advantage of the above mentioned options, use management chart
of accounts and management document postings generation tool.

With the solution, you can get financial reporting over an arbitrary
period of time using such reports as trial balance.

For income and expenses accounting use accrual method or accrual and
cash methods.

Analytical accounting of income and expenses is kept by business areas,
departments, customer orders, income and expense items (accounts) using
the accrual method.

With management accounting data, you can generate key financial reports:

-  Balance sheet statement

-  Profit and loss statement

-  Cash flow statement

With the solution, you can register the following financial plans
(budgets):

-  Budgeted balance sheet

-  Profit and loss budget

-  Cash flow budget

Performance indicators
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Top management can track company activities using Manager dashboard that
displays main consolidated indicators:

-  Cash balance on accounts and cash funds of the company

-  Sales dynamics

-  Total and overdue receivable

-  Total and overdue payable

-  Profits and losses

-  Outstanding liabilities for shipping goods and rendering services to
customers

-  Outstanding liabilities of suppliers and contractors for shipping
goods and rendering services

Additionally you can receive the following information:

-  General indicators: sales, income and expenses, state of floating
assets (funds, inventory, and receivable)

-  Funds: cash balance and cash flow by items over a period

-  Receivable: balance and dynamics over a period, by debt deadlines

-  Payable: balance and dynamics over a period, by debt deadlines

